book/CLI.md, before:

# Puff CLI

You don't need to know any Rust to use Puff.

[Install Rust for your platform](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) and then compile and install Puff:

```bash
cargo install puff-rs
```

Check to see if puff was installed correctly:

```bash
puff help
```

To get started with Puff, you need a `puff.toml`. Show an example of this file by use `puff example_config`:

```toml
django = false
postgres = false
redis = false
pubsub = false
task_queue = false
greenlets = true
asyncio = false
dotenv = false
dotenv_path = '.env'
pytest_path = './'
wsgi = 'my_wsgi.app'
asgi = 'my_asgi.app'
graphql = 'my_graphql.Schema'
graphql_url = '/graphql/'
graphql_subscription_url = '/subscriptions/'

[[commands]]
function = 'my_python_mod.some_func'
command_name = 'execute_func'
```

# Step 1: Hello World

Start a new python project with poetry:

```bash
poetry new my_puff_project
cd my_puff_project
```

Edit `my_puff_project/__init__.py` to add a new function `hello_world`:

```python
def hello_world():
    print("hi from puff")
```

and create `puff.toml` with a minimal config defining your function.

```toml
[[commands]]
function = 'my_puff_project.hello_world'
command_name = 'hello_world'
```

Now run your function:

```
poetry run puff hello_world
```

# Step 2: Add a Web Service

* [Flask](https://github.com/hansonkd/puff/blob/master/book/Flask.md)
* [FastAPI](https://github.com/hansonkd/puff/blob/master/book/FastAPI.md)
* [Django](https://github.com/hansonkd/puff/blob/master/book/Django.md)

Commit message:

Puff 0.17
* Improve GraphQL return type compatibility and subscription URLs.
* Update to pyo3 0.17
* Rename runserver to serve
* Don't require Postgres for GraphQL
* Add CORS, Compression support.
* Add puff-watch

book/CLI.md, after:

# Puff CLI

You don't need to know any Rust to use Puff.

[Install Rust for your platform](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) and then compile and install Puff:

```bash
cargo install puff-rs
```

Check to see if puff was installed correctly:

```bash
puff help
```

To get started with Puff, you need a `puff.toml`. Show an example of this file by use `puff example_config`:

```toml
django = false
postgres = false
redis = false
pubsub = false
task_queue = false
greenlets = true
asyncio = false
dotenv = false
dotenv_path = '.env'
pytest_path = './'
wsgi = 'my_wsgi.app'
asgi = 'my_asgi.app'
graphql = 'my_graphql.Schema'
graphql_url = '/graphql/'
graphql_subscription_url = '/subscriptions/'

[[commands]]
function = 'my_python_mod.some_func'
command_name = 'execute_func'
```

# Step 1: Configure Python Project

Start a new python project with poetry:

```bash
poetry new my_puff_project
cd my_puff_project
```

Edit `my_puff_project/__init__.py` to add a new function `hello_world`:

```python
def hello_world():
    print("hi from puff")
```

and create `puff.toml` with a minimal config defining your function.

```toml
[[commands]]
function = 'my_puff_project.hello_world'
command_name = 'hello_world'
```

Now run your function:

```
poetry run puff hello_world
```

# Step 2: Add Support Databases

Puff is built to use Postgres and Redis as support services. They are optional, but it's good to have them setup and ready to go.

The easiest way to get your databases setup is to use docker. Here is an example `docker-compose.yaml` that will work with the default Puff settings.

```yaml
version: '3.7'

services:
  postgres:
    image: postgres
    environment:
      - POSTGRES_USER=postgres
      - POSTGRES_PASSWORD=password
      - POSTGRES_DB=postgres
    ports:
      - "5432:5432"

  redis:
    image: redis
    ports:
      - "6379:6379"
```

Add to your project as `docker-compose.yaml` and run `docker-compose up` in a new tab.


# Step 3: Add a Web Service

* [Flask](https://github.com/hansonkd/puff/blob/master/book/Flask.md)
* [FastAPI](https://github.com/hansonkd/puff/blob/master/book/FastAPI.md)
* [Django](https://github.com/hansonkd/puff/blob/master/book/Django.md)
