book/Django.md, before:

# Step 1: Setup your Puff project

Follow the instructions on how to setup a new poetry project and install Puff:

* [Using the CLI](https://github.com/hansonkd/puff/blob/master/book/CLI.md)

# Step 2: Add Django and Create a Project

```bash
poetry add django
poetry run django-admin startproject hello_world_django_app .
```

Update `puff.toml` with the following lines

```toml
wsgi = "hello_world_django_app.wsgi.application"
redis = true
postgres = true
django = true
```

Change `hello_world_django_app/wsgi.py` to serve static files:

```python
...

from django.core.wsgi import get_wsgi_application
from django.contrib.staticfiles.handlers import StaticFilesHandler

application = StaticFilesHandler(get_wsgi_application())
```

Update `hello_world_django_app/settings.py` so that Django uses the Puff Database and Redis pools:

```python
DATABASES = {
    'default': {
        'ENGINE': 'puff.contrib.django.postgres',
        'NAME': 'global',
    }
}

CACHES = {
    'default': {
        'BACKEND': 'puff.contrib.django.redis.PuffRedisCache',
        'LOCATION': 'redis://global',
    }
}
```

Run the server:

```bash
poetry run puff django migrate
poetry run puff runserver
```

# Step 3: Add GraphQL

Create a new file called `my_puff_project/graphql.py`

```python
from typing import Optional, Iterable, List, Any, Tuple
from dataclasses import dataclass
from puff.pubsub import global_pubsub as pubsub
from puff.contrib.django import query_and_params
import django
from django.contrib.auth import get_user_model

# Setup Django since Puff will import GraphQL first.
django.setup()

User = get_user_model()


@dataclass
class UserType:
    id: int
    username: str
    email: str

    
@dataclass
class Query:
    @classmethod
    def lookup_user(cls, context, /, user_id: int) -> Optional[UserType]:
        # Lookup a user by their user_id
        return User.objects.filter(id=user_id).first()

    @classmethod
    def list_users(cls, context, /) -> Tuple[List[UserType], str, List[Any]]:
        # List all Users. Offload the query into the puff runtime.
        query, params = query_and_params(User.objects.order_by('id').all())
        return ..., query, params

    @classmethod
    def auth_token(cls, context, /) -> str:
        # All GraphQL queries have access to the Bearer token if set.
        return context.auth_token
    
    @classmethod
    def new_connection_id(cls, context, /) -> str:
        # Get a new connection identifier for pubsub.
        return pubsub.new_connection_id()


@dataclass
class Mutation:
    @classmethod
    def send_message_to_channel(cls, context, /, connection_id: str, channel: str, message: str) -> bool:
        return pubsub.publish_as(connection_id, channel, message)


@dataclass
class MessageObject:
    message_text: str
    from_connection_id: str
    num_processed: int


@dataclass
class Subscription:
    @classmethod
    def read_messages_from_channel(cls, context, /, channel: str, connection_id: Optional[str] = None) -> Iterable[MessageObject]:
        if connection_id is not None:
            conn = pubsub.connection_with_id(connection_id)
        else:
            conn = pubsub.connection()
        conn.subscribe(channel)
        num_processed = 0
        while msg := conn.receive():
            from_connection_id = msg.from_connection_id
            # Filter out messages from yourself.
            if connection_id != from_connection_id:
                yield MessageObject(message_text=msg.text, from_connection_id=from_connection_id, num_processed=num_processed)
                num_processed += 1


@dataclass
class Schema:
    query: Query
    mutation: Mutation
    subscription: Subscription
```

Update `puff.toml` with the following lines

```toml
pubsub = true
graphql = "my_puff_project.graphql.Schema"
graphql_url = "/graphql/"
graphql_subscription_url = "/subscriptions/"
```

Run the server and go to `http://localhost:7777/graphql/`

# Step 4: Add Distributed Tasks

Update `puff.toml` with the following lines

```toml
task_queue = true
```

Create a new file called `my_puff_project/tasks.py`

```python
def my_task(payload):
    print(f"Inside `my_task` with payload: {payload}")
    return {"from_task": payload}
```

Change your `Mutation` class in `graphql.py` to call the function through the queue:

```python
from puff.task_queue import global_task_queue as tq
from my_puff_project.tasks import my_task

...

@dataclass
class Mutation:
    @classmethod
    def send_message_to_channel(cls, context, /, connection_id: str, channel: str, message: str) -> bool:
        tq.add_task(my_task, {"auth_token": context.auth_token, "connection_id": connection_id, "channel": channel, "message": message})
        return pubsub.publish_as(connection_id, channel, message)
```

Run a worker server by using wait_forever in another tab:

```bash
poetry run puff wait_forever
```

Now run the server and calling the mutation will trigger tasks.

```bash
poetry run puff runserver
```

Commit message:

Add query examples for fastapi and flask.

book/Django.md, after:

# Step 1: Setup your Puff project

Follow the instructions on how to setup a new poetry project and install Puff:

* [Using the CLI](https://github.com/hansonkd/puff/blob/master/book/CLI.md)

# Step 2: Add Django and Create a Project

```bash
poetry add django
poetry run django-admin startproject hello_world_django_app .
```

Update `puff.toml` with the following lines

```toml
wsgi = "hello_world_django_app.wsgi.application"
redis = true
postgres = true
django = true
```

Change `hello_world_django_app/wsgi.py` to serve static files:

```python
...

from django.core.wsgi import get_wsgi_application
from django.contrib.staticfiles.handlers import StaticFilesHandler

application = StaticFilesHandler(get_wsgi_application())
```

Update `hello_world_django_app/settings.py` so that Django uses the Puff Database and Redis pools:

```python
DATABASES = {
    'default': {
        'ENGINE': 'puff.contrib.django.postgres',
        'NAME': 'global',
    }
}

CACHES = {
    'default': {
        'BACKEND': 'puff.contrib.django.redis.PuffRedisCache',
        'LOCATION': 'redis://global',
    }
}
```

Run the server:

```bash
poetry run puff django migrate
poetry run puff runserver
```

# Step 3: Add GraphQL

Create a new file called `my_puff_project/graphql.py`

```python
from typing import Optional, Iterable, List, Any, Tuple
from dataclasses import dataclass
from puff import graphql
from puff.pubsub import global_pubsub as pubsub
from puff.contrib.django import query_and_params
import django
from django.contrib.auth import get_user_model

# Setup Django since Puff will import GraphQL first.
django.setup()

User = get_user_model()


@dataclass
class UserType:
    id: int
    username: str
    email: str

    
@dataclass
class Query:
    @classmethod
    @graphql.borrow_db_context  
    def lookup_user(cls, context, /, user_id: int) -> Optional[UserType]:
        # Lookup a user by their user_id
        # borrow_db_context lets Django have access to Puff Connection to use for query
        return User.objects.filter(id=user_id).first()

    @classmethod
    def list_users(cls, context, /) -> Tuple[List[UserType], str, List[Any]]:
        # List all Users. Offload the query into the puff runtime.
        # The ellipsis is a placeholder allowing the Python type system to know which Field type it should transform into.
        query, params = query_and_params(User.objects.order_by('id').all())
        return ..., query, params

    @classmethod
    def auth_token(cls, context, /) -> str:
        # All GraphQL queries have access to the Bearer token if set.
        return context.auth_token
    
    @classmethod
    def new_connection_id(cls, context, /) -> str:
        # Get a new connection identifier for pubsub.
        return pubsub.new_connection_id()


@dataclass
class Mutation:
    @classmethod
    def send_message_to_channel(cls, context, /, connection_id: str, channel: str, message: str) -> bool:
        return pubsub.publish_as(connection_id, channel, message)


@dataclass
class MessageObject:
    message_text: str
    from_connection_id: str
    num_processed: int


@dataclass
class Subscription:
    @classmethod
    def read_messages_from_channel(cls, context, /, channel: str, connection_id: Optional[str] = None) -> Iterable[MessageObject]:
        if connection_id is not None:
            conn = pubsub.connection_with_id(connection_id)
        else:
            conn = pubsub.connection()
        conn.subscribe(channel)
        num_processed = 0
        while msg := conn.receive():
            from_connection_id = msg.from_connection_id
            # Filter out messages from yourself.
            if connection_id != from_connection_id:
                yield MessageObject(message_text=msg.text, from_connection_id=from_connection_id, num_processed=num_processed)
                num_processed += 1


@dataclass
class Schema:
    query: Query
    mutation: Mutation
    subscription: Subscription
```

Update `puff.toml` with the following lines

```toml
pubsub = true
graphql = "my_puff_project.graphql.Schema"
graphql_url = "/graphql/"
graphql_subscription_url = "/subscriptions/"
```

Run the server and go to `http://localhost:7777/graphql/`

# Step 4: Add Distributed Tasks

Update `puff.toml` with the following lines

```toml
task_queue = true
```

Create a new file called `my_puff_project/tasks.py`

```python
def my_task(payload):
    print(f"Inside `my_task` with payload: {payload}")
    return {"from_task": payload}
```

Change your `Mutation` class in `graphql.py` to call the function through the queue:

```python
from puff.task_queue import global_task_queue as tq
from my_puff_project.tasks import my_task

...

@dataclass
class Mutation:
    @classmethod
    def send_message_to_channel(cls, context, /, connection_id: str, channel: str, message: str) -> bool:
        tq.add_task(my_task, {"auth_token": context.auth_token, "connection_id": connection_id, "channel": channel, "message": message})
        return pubsub.publish_as(connection_id, channel, message)
```

Run a worker server by using wait_forever in another tab:

```bash
poetry run puff wait_forever
```

Now run the server and calling the mutation will trigger tasks.

```bash
poetry run puff runserver
```
